To defend against attacks,
organizations need
to have more than
just the understanding of
the growing digital
landscape around them.
Positioning themselves ahead
of a cyber threat also takes
understanding the type of
attacks that can be
used against them.
Last time, we began
exploring how the cloud has
expanded the digital
attack surface
that organizations protect.
As a result, cloud
computing has led to
an increase in the number
attack vectors available.
Attack vectors refer
to the pathways
attackers use to penetrate
security defenses.
Like the doors and
windows of a home,
these pathways are
the exploitable features
of an attack surface.
One example of an attack
vector would be social media.
Another would be removable
media, like a USB drive.
Most people outside of
security assume that
cyber criminals
are the only ones
out there exploiting
attack vectors.
While attack vectors are used by
malicious hackers to
steal information,
other groups use them too.
For example, employees
occasionally exploit attack
vectors unintentionally.
This happens a lot with
social media platforms.
Sometimes, employees post
sensitive company news
that shouldn't have been shared.
At times, this same kind of thing
happens on purpose.
Social media platforms are also
vectors that
disgruntled employees
use to intentionally share
confidential information
that can harm the company.
We all treat attack vectors as
critical risks to
asset security.
Attackers typically
put forth a lot of
effort planning their attacks
before carrying them out.
It's up to us as security
professionals to
put an even greater amount of
effort into stopping them.
Security teams do
this by thinking of
each vector with an
attacker mindset.
This starts with a
simple question,
"how would we exploit
this vector?"
We then go through a
step-by-step process
to answer our question.
First, when practicing
an attacker mindset,
we identify a target.
This could be specific
information, a system,
a person, a group,
or the organization itself.
Next, we determine how the
target can be accessed.
What information is
available that an attacker
might take advantage of
to reach the target?
Based on that information,
the third step is to evaluate
the attack vectors that can
be exploited to gain entry.
And finally, we find the tools
and methods of attack.
What will the attackers
use to carry this out?
Along the way, practicing
an attacker mindset
provides valuable insight
into the best security
controls to implement
and the vulnerabilities
that need to be monitored.
Every organization
has a long list
of attack vectors to defend.
While there are a lot of
ways to protect them,
there are a few common
rules for doing this.
One key to defending
attack vectors is
educating users about
security vulnerabilities.
These efforts are usually
tied to an event.
For example, advising them about
a new phishing exploit that is
targeting users in
the organization.
Another rule is applying
the principle of
least privilege.
We've explored least privilege
earlier in this section.
It's the idea that
access rights should be
limited to what's required
to perform a task.
Like we previously explored,
this practice closes
multiple security holes
inside an organization's
attack surface.
Next, using the right
security controls and
tools can go a long way towards
defending attack vectors.
Even the most
knowledgeable employees
make security mistakes,
like accidentally clicking on
a malicious link in an email.
Having the right
security tools in place,
like antivirus software,
helps to defend
attack vectors more
efficiently and reduce
the risk of human error.
Last but not least,
is building a diverse
security team.
This is one of the best
ways to reduce the risk of
attack vectors and
prevent future attacks.
Your own unique perspective can
greatly improve the
security team's ability to
apply an attacker's
mindset and stay
one step ahead of
potential threats.
Keeping yourself informed is
always important in this field.
You're already off
to a great start,
so keep up the good work!